planner: add docs for some variables (#9943)
pingcap/docs: system-variables.md

>
> Unlike in MySQL, the `max_execution_time` system variable currently works on all kinds of statements in TiDB, not only restricted to the `SELECT` statement. The precision of the timeout value is roughly 100ms. This means the statement might not be terminated in accurate milliseconds as you specify.

### max_prepared_stmt_count

- Scope: GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: Yes
- Type: Integer
- Default value: `-1`
- Range: `[-1, 1048576]`
- Indicates the maximum number of [`PREPARE` statement](/sql-statements/sql-statement-prepare.md) of a session.

> - `-1` means no limitation.

Reviewer: Could you describe what happens if the the number exceeds?

Author: OK, a new example was added.

>
> Unlike in MySQL, the `max_execution_time` system variable currently works on all kinds of statements in TiDB, not only restricted to the `SELECT` statement. The precision of the timeout value is roughly 100ms. This means the statement might not be terminated in accurate milliseconds as you specify.

### max_prepared_stmt_count

- Scope: GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: Yes
- Type: Integer
- Default value: `-1`
- Range: `[-1, 1048576]`

> - Specifies the maximum number of [`PREPARE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-prepare.md)  statements in a session.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Specifies the maximum number of [`PREPARE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-prepare.md) statements in a session.
```

- Since v6.1.0, the [Join Reorder](/join-reorder.md) algorithm of TiDB supports Outer Join. This variable controls the support behavior, and the default value is `ON`.
- For a cluster upgraded from a version earlier than v6.1.0, the default value is still `TRUE`.

### tidb_enable_ordered_result_mode

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: Yes
- Default value: `OFF`

> - Indicates whether to sort the final output result automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Specifies whether to sort the final output result automatically.
```

> - For example, if enable this feature, TiDB will process `select a, max(b) from t group by a` as `select a, max(b) from t group by a order by a, max(b)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For example, with this variable enabled, TiDB processes `SELECT a, MAX(b) FROM t GROUP BY a` as `SELECT a, MAX(b) FROM t GROUP BY a ORDER BY a, MAX(b)`.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- This variable is used to set whether the optimizer executes the optimization operation of pushing down the aggregate function to the position before Join, Projection, and UnionAll.
- When the aggregate operation is slow in query, you can set the variable value to ON.

### tidb_opt_cartesian_bcj

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Integer
- Default value: `1`
- Range: `[0, 2]`
- Indicates whether to allow broadcast CARTESIAN join. 

> - `0` means that it's not allowed, `1` means that it's allow based on `tidb_broadcast_join_threshold_count`, and `2` means it's always allowed even if the table size exceeds the threshold.

Reviewer: Typo: "that it's allow" -> "that it's allow**ed**"

Author: fixed

- This variable is used to set whether the optimizer executes the optimization operation of pushing down the aggregate function to the position before Join, Projection, and UnionAll.
- When the aggregate operation is slow in query, you can set the variable value to ON.

### tidb_opt_cartesian_bcj

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Integer
- Default value: `1`
- Range: `[0, 2]`
- Indicates whether to allow the broadcast CARTESIAN join. 

> - `0` means that the broadcast CARTESIAN join is not allowed. `1` means that it is allowed based on [`tidb_broadcast_join_threshold_count`](#tidb_broadcast_join_threshold_count-new-in-v50). `2` means that it is always allowed even if the table size exceeds the threshold.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `0` means that the broadcast CARTESIAN join is not allowed. `1` means that it is allowed based on [`tidb_broadcast_join_threshold_count`](#tidb_broadcast_join_threshold_count-new-in-v50). `2` means that it is always allowed even if the table size exceeds the threshold.
- This variable is internally used in TiDB. It is not recommended to modify its value.
```

### tidb_opt_concurrency_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `3.0`

> - Indicates the CPU cost of starting a Golang goroutine in TiDB. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the CPU cost of starting a Golang goroutine in TiDB. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.
```

### tidb_opt_cop_cpu_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `3.0`

> - Indicates the CPU cost for TiKV Coprocessor to process one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the CPU cost for TiKV Coprocessor to process one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.
```

- This variable is used to set whether the optimizer executes the optimization operation of pushing down the aggregate function to the position before Join, Projection, and UnionAll.
- When the aggregate operation is slow in query, you can set the variable value to ON.

> ### tidb_opt_cartesian_bcj

Reviewer 2: Incorrect variable name. Fixed in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10782

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Integer
- Default value: `1`
- Range: `[0, 2]`

> - Indicates whether to allow the broadcast CARTESIAN join. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates whether to allow the Broadcast CARTESIAN JOIN. 
```

> - `0` means that the broadcast CARTESIAN join is not allowed. `1` means that it is allowed based on [`tidb_broadcast_join_threshold_count`](#tidb_broadcast_join_threshold_count-new-in-v50). `2` means that it is always allowed even if the table size exceeds the threshold.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `0` means that the Broadcast Cartesian Join is not allowed. `1` means that it is allowed based on [`tidb_broadcast_join_threshold_count`](#tidb_broadcast_join_threshold_count-new-in-v50). `2` means that it is always allowed even if the table size exceeds the threshold.
```

- This variable is internally used in TiDB, and it is **NOT** recommended to modify its value.

> ### tidb_opt_concurrency_factor

Reviewer 2: Incorrect variable name. Fixed in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10782

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `3.0`
- Indicates the CPU cost of starting a Golang goroutine in TiDB. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is **NOT** recommended to modify its value.

> ### tidb_opt_cop_cpu_factor

Reviewer 2: Incorrect variable name. Fixed in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10782

- Range: `[0, 1]`
- This variable is used to set the threshold value that determines whether to enable estimating the row count by using column order correlation. If the order correlation between the current column and the `handle` column exceeds the threshold value, this method is enabled.

### tidb_opt_cpu_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `3.0`

> - Indicates the CPU cost for TiDB to process one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the CPU cost for TiDB to process one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.
```

### tidb_opt_desc_scan_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `3.0`

> - Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row from the disk in descending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row from the disk in descending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.
```

### tidb_opt_disk_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `1.5`

> - Indicates the I/O cost for TiDB to read or write one byte of data from or to the temporary disk. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the I/O cost for TiDB to read or write one byte of data from or to the temporary disk. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.
```

- Range: `[0, 1]`
- This variable is used to set the threshold value that determines whether to enable estimating the row count by using column order correlation. If the order correlation between the current column and the `handle` column exceeds the threshold value, this method is enabled.

### tidb_opt_cpu_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `3.0`

> - Indicates the CPU cost for TiDB to process one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the CPU cost for TiDB to process one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is **NOT** recommended to modify its value.
```

### tidb_opt_desc_scan_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `3.0`

> - Indicates the cost of TiKV to scan one row from the disk in descending order. It's used by the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row from the disk in descending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).
```

> - Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row from the disk in descending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row from the disk in descending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is **NOT** recommended to modify its value.
```

### tidb_opt_disk_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `1.5`

> - Indicates the I/O cost of TiDB to read/write one byte from/to the temporary disk. It's used by the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the I/O cost for TiDB to read or write one byte of data from or to the temporary disk. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).
```

> - Indicates the I/O cost for TiDB to read or write one byte of data from or to the temporary disk. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the I/O cost for TiDB to read or write one byte of data from or to the temporary disk. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is **NOT** recommended to modify its value.
```

- This variable is used to set the threshold that determines whether to push the Limit or TopN operator down to TiKV.
- If the value of the Limit or TopN operator is smaller than or equal to this threshold, these operators are forcibly pushed down to TiKV. This variable resolves the issue that the Limit or TopN operator cannot be pushed down to TiKV partly due to wrong estimation.

### tidb_opt_memory_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `0.001`

> - Indicates the memory cost for TiDB to store one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the memory cost for TiDB to store one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.
```

- This variable is used to set the threshold that determines whether to push the Limit or TopN operator down to TiKV.
- If the value of the Limit or TopN operator is smaller than or equal to this threshold, these operators are forcibly pushed down to TiKV. This variable resolves the issue that the Limit or TopN operator cannot be pushed down to TiKV partly due to wrong estimation.

### tidb_opt_memory_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `0.001`

> - Indicates the memory cost of TiDB to store one row. It's used by the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the memory cost for TiDB to store one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).
```

> - Indicates the memory cost for TiDB to store one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the memory cost for TiDB to store one row. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is **NOT** recommended to modify its value.
```

- Default value: `ON`
- Specifies whether to allow using outer table as the build side in outer join for TiFlash.

### tidb_opt_network_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `1.0`

> - Indicates the net cost of transferring 1 byte of data through the network. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the net cost of transferring 1 byte of data through the network. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.
```

> - Default value: `ON`

Reviewer 2: Incorrect default value. Fixed in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10782.

- Specifies whether to allow using outer table as the build side in outer join for TiFlash.

### tidb_opt_network_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `1.0`

> - Indicates the net cost of transferring 1 byte through the network. It's used by the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the net cost of transferring 1 byte of data through the network. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).
```

> - Indicates the net cost of transferring 1 byte of data through the network. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the net cost of transferring 1 byte of data through the network. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is **NOT** recommended to modify its value.
```

- Default value: `OFF`
- Specifies whether to allow the optimizer to push `Projection` down to the TiKV or TiFlash coprocessor.

### tidb_opt_scan_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `1.5`

> - Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row of data from the disk in ascending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row of data from the disk in ascending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.
```

### tidb_opt_seek_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `20`

> - Indicates the start-up cost for TiDB to request data from TiKV. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the start-up cost for TiDB to request data from TiKV. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.
```

- Default value: `OFF`
- Specifies whether to allow the optimizer to push `Projection` down to the TiKV or TiFlash coprocessor.

### tidb_opt_scan_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `1.5`

> - Indicates the cost of TiKV to scan one row from the disk in ascending order. It's used by the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row of data from the disk in ascending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).
```

> - Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row of data from the disk in ascending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the cost for TiKV to scan one row of data from the disk in ascending order. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is **NOT** recommended to modify its value.
```

### tidb_opt_seek_factor

- Scope: SESSION | GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: YES
- Type: Float
- Range: `[0, 2147483647]`
- Default value: `20`

> - Indicates the start-up cost of TiDB to request data from TiKV. It's used by the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the start-up cost for TiDB to request data from TiKV. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md).
```

> - Indicates the start-up cost for TiDB to request data from TiKV. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is not recommended to modify its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Indicates the start-up cost for TiDB to request data from TiKV. This variable is internally used in the [Cost Model](/cost-model.md), and it is **NOT** recommended to modify its value.
```
